St Kilda Beach:

Just 6km from the city centre, St Kilda is Melbourne’s seaside playground and is much-loved by residents and visitors.  St Kilda is renowned for its expansive view of Port Phillip, safe sandy beach, palm-lined boardwalk, huge range of beach activities, big skies, gorgeous sunsets, parks and gardens, great restaurants, bars and cafés, fabulous old buildings, and its colourful past and present.

Royal Botanic Garden:

Located in Birdwood Avenue, Melbourne 3004
Open 7.30am to sunset every day of the year
Entry to Melbourne Gardens is free.

Visitor Centre: Located at the Observatory Precinct on Birdwood Avenue, our Visitor Centre provides information on the gardens, tour bookings, umbrella hire, wheelchair hire, toilets, Jardin Tan and the gift shop.

Open: 9am – 5pm weekdays, 9.30am – 5pm weekends and public holidays (closed Christmas Day and New Years Day).

Services available in the Visitor Centre include:

personal assistance to enrich your visit
maps & brochures
lost and found
Contact the Visitor Centre: T: +61 3 9252 2429
E: rbg@rbg.vic.gov.au

Albert Park Lake:

Albert Park and Albert Park Lake are situated in the City of Port Phillip, Victoria, Australia, 3 km south of the Melbourne CBD.

The park encompasses 2.25 square kilometres (225 ha; 560 acres) of parkland including Albert Park Lake (0.49 square kilometres (49 ha; 120 acres)[2]) and provides numerous ovals, sporting facilities, the Albert Park Public Golf Course, a 5-kilometre (3.1 mi) walking track around the lake, and the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit. It is bordered by Albert Road, Queens Road, Fitzroy Street and Canterbury Road. Surrounding suburbs include Albert Park, Middle Park, St Kilda, Melbourne and South Melbourne.

Queen Victoria Market:

The Queen Victoria Market (also known as the Queen Vic Markets or the Queen Vic, and locally as '"Vic Market"') is a major landmark in Melbourne, Australia, and at around seven hectares (17 acres) is the largest open air market in the Southern Hemisphere. The Market is significant to Melbourne's culture and heritage and has been listed on the Victorian Heritage Register. The Market is named after Queen Victoria who ruled the British Empire, from 1837 to 1901.

Moomba Festival:

Moomba Festival, held annually in Melbourne, is Australia's largest free community festival and one of Australia's longest running community festivals.It is celebrated during the Labour Day long weekend (over four days, from Friday to the second Monday in March). Moomba is culturally important to Melbourne, having been celebrated since 1955 and regularly attracts up to a million people with a record attendance of 1.7 million set in 1996.

Tulip Farm:

See hundreds of thousands of tulips on display at the Tesselaar Tulip Festival, the colour is absolutely amazing! 

In addition to the flowers there is live entertainment and market stalls daily, tractor rides, performances, souvenirs, games for all and much more, you can even see Australia's biggest clog! 
Tesselaar Tulip Festival
10am until 5pm daily
8th September until 4th October, 2016
The Tulip Farm, 357 Monbulk Rd, Silvan, Victoria

Melbourne Cup:

The Melbourne Cup is one of Australia's most prestigious Thoroughbred horse races. It is a 3,200 metre race for three-year-olds and over. It is the richest "two-mile" handicap in the world, and one of the richest turf races. Conducted annually by the Victoria Racing Club on the Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne, Victoria, the event starts at 3pm on the first Tuesday in November

Royal Melbourne Show:

The Royal Melbourne Show is an agricultural show held at the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds every September. It is organised by the Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria and has been running since 1848.Each year Royal Melbourne Show attracts attendances of up to half a million people.
The traditional purpose is the display of rural industry, including livestock and produce with its associated competitions and awards however the show also features amusement rides and a sideshow alley, as well as the peculiarly Australian tradition of 'Showbags', carry bags containing samples of goodies produced by various commercial enterprises.

Puffing Billy:

The Puffing Billy Railway is a 2 ft 6 in (762 mm) narrow gauge heritage railway in the Dandenong Ranges near Melbourne, Australia. The primary starting point, operations and administration centre, main refreshment room (also selling souvenirs) and ticket purchasing are located at Belgrave station. Journeys may also be commenced at out-stations of which some have limited facilities for the purchase of tickets, refreshments and souvenirs. Tickets usually may also be purchased from the conductor aboard the train.

Sovereign Hill:

Sovereign Hill is an open-air museum in Golden Point, a suburb of Ballarat, Victoria, Australia. Sovereign Hill depicts Ballarat's first ten years after the discovery of gold there in 1851. It was officially opened on 29 November 1970 and has become a nationally acclaimed tourist attraction. It is one of Victoria's most popular attractions and Ballarat's most famous.
Set in the Australian 1850s, the complex is located on a 25-hectare site that is linked to the richest alluvial gold rush in the world. The site comprises over 60 historically recreated buildings, with costumed staff and volunteers, who are able to answer questions and will pose for photos. The recreation is completed with antiques, artwork, books and papers, machinery, livestock and animals, carriages, and devices all appropriate to the era.

Penguin Parade:

Phillip Island’s Penguin Parade is the only commercial venue in the world where you can see penguins in their own environment and attracts tourists from different parts of the world. Phillip Island located 90-min from Melbourne.

Great Ocean Road:

The offical start of the Great Ocean Road is 103km from Melbourne CBD and will take approximately 1hr:17mins to drive. In 2009 a Freeway Extension (M1) was built that bypasses Geelong, making access to the Great Ocean Road much quicker.

The step by step directions below should take you there:

Travel from Melbourne city onto the Westgate Freeway
Continue onto Princes Freeway
Continue onto Geelong Ring Road
Follow the signs for Torquay
You can choose to head to the coast or explore the hinterland by continuing on the Princes Highway (A1) or explore the quieter country roads.

National Gallery Victoria:

The National Gallery of Victoria, popularly known as the NGV, is an art museum in Melbourne, Australia. Founded in 1861, it is Australia's oldest, largest and most visited art museum.
The National Gallery of Victoria houses an encyclopedic art collection across two sites: NGV International, located on St Kilda Road in the Melbourne Arts Precinct of Southbank, and the Ian Potter Centre: NGV Australia, located nearby at Federation Square. The St Kilda Road building, designed by Sir Roy Grounds, opened in 1968, and was redeveloped by Mario Bellini before reopening in 2003. It houses the gallery's international art collection and is on the Victorian Heritage Register. Designed by Lab Architecture Studio, the Ian Potter Centre opened in 2002 and houses the gallery's Australian art collection.

Melbourne Museum:

Melbourne Museum is a natural and cultural history museum located in the Carlton Gardens in Melbourne, Australia, adjacent to the Royal Exhibition Building. The museum has seven main galleries, a Children's Gallery and a temporary exhibit gallery on three levels, Upper, Ground and Lower Level and was constructed by Baulderstone Hornibrook.
The Touring Hall is where temporary exhibits are displayed. Past exhibits include mummies from Egypt and dinosaurs from China. The Big Box is part of the Children's Gallery.
In addition, the museum has other facilities such as the Sidney Myer Amphitheatre and The Age Theatre. The Discovery Centre, on the Lower Level, is a free public research centre. The museum also has a cafe and a souvenir shop.
The IMAX Theatre, which is situated on the Lower Level is also part of the museum complex. It shows movies, usually documentary films, in 3-D format.

State Library Victoria:

The State Library of Victoria is the central library of the state of Victoria, Australia, located in Melbourne. It is on the block bounded by Swanston, La Trobe, Russell, and Little Lonsdale streets, in the northern centre of the central business district. The library holds over 2 million books and 16,000 serials, including the diaries of the cities founders, John Batman and John Pascoe Fawkner, and the folios of Captain James Cook, R.N.. It also houses the original armour of Ned Kelly.

War Memorial: Shrine of Remembrance

The Shrine of Remembrance is the National War Memorial of Victoria, a monument dedicated to all those who have served in the armed conflicts and peacekeeping operations in which Australia has participated.
The Shrine of Remembrance, located in Kings Domain on St Kilda Road, Melbourne, Australia was built as a memorial to the men and women of Victoria who served in World War I and is now a memorial to all Australians who have served in war. It is a site of annual observances of ANZAC Day (25 April) and Remembrance Day (11 November) and is one of the largest war memorials in Australia.


